The success in my project 'Optimizing PID controller using Differential Evolution Technique' during my baccalaureate program infused me with enthusiasm and willingness to enhance my programming skills and developed a larger horizon for my analytical thinking. To broaden my realms of interest, I worked on development of a new methodology for optimizing cost and reliability measures of an interconnection network within specified constraints using MATLAB. I also undertook a project on Image Stenography (embedding protected image within carrier image). Such projects reinforced my concepts of computer programming in C/C++, made me more proficient on MATLAB and furthered my ambition to do collaborative research. During my final semester I attended educational online courses at MIT OpenCourseWare to gain deep insight into artificial intelligence, probabilistic graphical models and mathematical models of real systems. I studied IEEE white papers on leading computational system & optimization techniques to become aware of latest advances in Computer Science.



In addition to academic pursuits, I regularly participated in technical symposiums. In 2010, I was awarded second position in IEEE sponsored 'Robo F1' competition held by Robotekies (IIT-Delhi alumni and IEEE). I also organized inter-college technical events such as 'Circuit Design Challenge' and ‘C++ Challenge’ events in Techsurge, college’s technical symposium. Outside college, I volunteered in Bisnouli Sarvodaya Gramodyog Sewa Sansthan (NGO) and Red Cross camps to improve lives of underprivileged and to develop sustainable community welfare programs. In such initiatives, I gained valuable event management, organizational, inter-personal skills and realized the importance of working in team.

While developing and enhancing various functionalities of a Supply Chain Management System using different languages such as RPG/RPGLE, CL/CLLE, SQLRPGLE, EMBEDED SQL and JAVA, I learned about different algorithms used in various e-Commerce modules such as Warehouse Management System, Inventory Management System and Order Processing System. Then I was assigned to a project where we were supposed to migrate data from legacy Order Management System (JDA) to Sterling OMS where I learned information security, data retrieval best practices and line of solutions that enhance basic ERP commerce functionalities.  In appreciation of my dedication, promptness and skills, I was credited to be the “Best New Joiner” in my team and later awarded the designation of Lead Engineer. Today I am a part of O3 League of Excellence at HCL Technologies which is possible only after three years of consistent excellence in performance.

